[Music]
hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with my recipe for buttermilk fried
chicken one of my favorite recipes of
all time and not that hard to put
together and just for fun i'm gonna show
you how i break down a whole chicken for
fried chicken i'm gonna take off the
wingtips
those are useless i'm gonna DJ the wings
right with they attach to the body
alright the thigh leg section comes off
don't be afraid to snap and dislocate
and then that gets caught between the
drumstick and the thigh yes this is
quick but go back and watch it you know
seven or eight times you'll see so once
the legs and thighs are done i'm left
with basically the carcass which has the
backbone and the breasts and you'll
notice i'm using a nice heavy cleaver
the ultimate tool for a chicken
breakdown snap the backbone like that
cut the breasts in half and then each
breast gets cut in two pieces alright
you'll notice here when i cut the breast
in half i sliced down until i hit the
bone and then i give it one pound with
my hand so it goes through in one shot
nice and clean otherwise you get like
bone fragments so there's my four breast
pieces my two thighs drumsticks and the
two wings all right into the ball goes
black pepper salt paprika dried herbs
white pepper cayenne and that gets
tossed all the believe it or not eleven
herbs and spices will be on this site
okay after that's well tossed with these
spices and herbs you're gonna top it
with buttermilk and we're gonna let that
sit for six hours you can get away with
four you can go overnight if you want
but i like six hours alright then we're
gonna make some seasoned flour which is
just flour salt some paprika some
cayenne some garlic powder some white
pepper and some onion powder so give
that a mix after the buttermilk
marination the chicken pieces get
dredged oh my god there's a fire truck
going by hate when that happens the
chicken gets dredged in that seasoned
flour well there you want it really
nicely coated give it a little shake off
put on a plate and then we're ready to
fry and what we're gonna do and there's
lots of different ways to fry this i'm
going to
take a Dutch oven alright that's a big 8
quart Dutch oven and I have about two
and a half quarts of oil in there and
I'm gonna fry all eight pieces at once
now some people like to fry in a skillet
and just like an inch or two of oil and
then they do it in batches and they turn
it halfway through you know I don't have
the patience I want it to all be done at
the same time of course this uses twice
the oil but you know what how often do
you make fried chicken like once a year
so at 350 I'm gonna cook that for about
10 minutes it's gonna develop a nice
crust I'm gonna go in after 10 minutes
and just move it around a little just in
case some pieces are stuck together and
I want to cook evenly that's gonna go
for about another 10 to 15 minutes so
it's about 20-25 minutes total in the
hot oil to cook all the way through now
while that's finishing up I like to take
a rack and put it on some paper towels
on a sheet pan and that's what I'm gonna
use to drain the cooked chicken on all
right so that's ready and the chickens
ready look at that unbelievably
beautiful so again it's been about 20 to
25 minutes total in the oil I'm gonna
fish it out with my spider that little
strainer thing you see there and what
beautiful chicken impossibly crispy
amazingly delicious
don't bite into it for about 10 minutes
because it's so hot you won't enjoy it
you just burn yourself so 10 minutes
later we had a delicious plate of fried
chicken and I just could not bring
myself to eat this in front of you but
trust me it was every bit as good as it
looks that is not a hard recipe it does
take a little bit of work but completely
worth it so like I said 11 herbs and
spices blued or not or what was included
in this you can go to the site count
them yourself as all the ingredients are
listed there and as always enjoy
you